and welcome back to a fresh episode of
sam's business growth show
excited to be joined by danny bluestone
today danny is the founder and ceo over
at cyberduck the original
ux and digital transformation digital
agency since since 2005.
cyberduck listed on the delotti top 500
fastest growing technology companies in
europe
the middle east and africa and danny was
voted as one of the uk's top
100 influential people in digital by
bema
twice danny a very welcome to the show
sir how you doing
how's it going everyone great to be here
with you sam so i've heard a lot about
your your podcast
and uh yeah we've been chatting about it
for a long time and
i've been really eager to join so here
we are
looking forward to it man yeah it's nice
nice to finally chat and um a really
really interesting topic today so we're
gonna be talking about digital
transformation
and how culture can grow our business us
to running digital marketing companies
is
is quite relevant and everything that's
happening in the times around us was
covid and all this kind of things a lot
of businesses are moving into digital
or finding ways they can adapt and scale
and and transform them to
essentially where their users are so
it's going to be a good topic for
conversation
so i really want to get stuck in i want
to go straight into it
and danny i'm quite curious to know
because i've got my own thoughts and
ideas of what digital transformation is
but i really want to know how you
describe digital transformation if
you're talking to a prospective client
or customer
and um how you what your spin of it
really is
so i always start talking about digital
transformation
from a user's perspective so obviously
first and foremost i'm i'm you know
human a person to me digital
transformation is about
what can digital do to me first and
foremost and then i look at you know
family friends you know how how is
digital
impacting their their life their
lifestyle
and what more could it do um and then i
kind of break things down
try and reverse engineer things to look
at
okay so if my trash is being collected
once every two weeks
how could that experience potentially be
better
using digital channels obviously there's
still physical things that happen you
know there's a
there's a there's a van that shows up
takes the trash
but how how can i basically inter
interface better with the people
or council that's running that
particular service
you know how can i interact better with
um my daughter's nursery who are sending
paper reports you know how can digital
help with that how can i um interact
better with the school and
the online learning that that is
happening again with my other daughters
so
there's all of these things that digital
now
is kind of involved with in some
industries it's completely changed the
way things are done in other industries
you know particularly where there's like
governments or big organizations
involved there's more bureaucracy
there's more there's more red tape
there's more more things and there's
more change that has yet to come
and digital transformation has kind of
been rocked and rolled by covet because
it's essentially been like this massive
curveball that's forced a lot of
businesses and a lot of organizations
and ultimately a lot of people to think
about okay we've got digital at our
fingertips but how can we really get
access to all the products and services
um in a far better way so that you know
what
is one of the things that i i see when i
think about digital transformation how
can it really
how can digital really be used to make
our lives
um better and kind of enrich those
experiences whether it's
talking to friends who are who are in
another
part of the world that you haven't
spoken to or whether it is actually
buying
you know a pair of jeans online um
because you can't walk into a shop
because there's a pandemic so um yeah
got it and that's that's a really
interesting way of putting it because
i'm sure a lot of people
and sometimes when i first heard the
term in my head i
i think of it as more of a digital
marketing angle transforming your
business when i first heard the term i
thought
it means a company needs to get their
website in shape their digital marketing
in shape
and essentially make sure that all their
their team members
are fluent with what's going on with
technology in the digital world but the
way you've described it there puts in
such a better human
way in terms of improving interactions
and enriching how you do business with
people
um so from a more of a business
perspective danny
is is there a way we could describe it
for businesses that actually really want
to get a hold of digital
transformation is it about what i've
just said there in terms of making sure
their website is really focused on their
end users and their ideal customers is
is that part of it or is that just a
small piece of the puzzle is there so
much more that
let's say small to medium-sized
businesses need to think about
yeah i mean i mean look to to small
businesses digital transformation
provides
massive opportunities so um
yeah i mean it's it's anything from like
a small kind of i guess
uh business that wants to sell kind of
they used to potentially have a shop or
go to a market stall and now all of a
sudden they find themselves
on etsy or ebay or you know i mean
obviously being aware of of these kind
of
creative channels or creative entities
like etsy for example like the whole
kind of gig economy for example
put a lot of power in in kind of
people's hands where all of a sudden
that they're producing things online
they're creating sort of custom t-shirts
or custom shirts
or or whatever it can start off as a
very kind of small
um you know business that
you know is interacting for example with
a very small
segment of the population because they
don't have that outreach and then all of
a sudden
with with kind of digital and the rise
of digital um
they have much more channels available
to them to basically transact to
basically be creative
and obviously it happens in small
businesses it happens in large
businesses as well where companies can
monetize
products and services um a lot more i
mean
if you think about people who provide
services
as opposed to you know those that
provide products people that provide
services now can provide services
through
through video and through zoom and
through through chats you know like even
personal trainers
you know even they're doing um i mean
how many people do you know that
get personal training through let's say
zoom now right so these are things that
were unheard of
even six months ago um sure it's
transforming
the the industries is transforming
people's lifestyles
yes it's it's totally about kind of the
the websites marketing and
and apps but it's also kind of a mind
shift
in kind of how people behave as well um
and
and also how they operate so
you know like if you think about
creating an invoice for example
years ago you'd have to create a piece
of paper go to your printer print it
scan things now you just
you know you log into a website you're
generating your invoice you don't have
to drive to your accountant at the end
of the year
the whole kind of process is done
digitized your accountant could be
sitting in
timbuktu or somewhere like that right so
yeah that's the truth
so no danny is it is it more about
our end users or our customers that we
want to be doing business with or is it
also about
streamlining the processes internally so
you mentioned things like slickening the
invoice processor no longer like you say
we have to visit our account we can do
everything online through tools like
quickbooks or xero whatever we use
even on our mobile phones um is it is
also about improving internal processes
as well as making life easier for our
for our customers like you said they're
transitioning from
doing stuff face to face to if you're if
you're creative business then you'd move
to etsy
or if you're you're a personal trainer
you might have moved to zoom because
everything's easier and obviously
everyone in the uk anyway is at home
and a lot of people in other countries
as well so is that is there ways we can
it can help us internally with our own
processes and what's going on with our
staff yeah i mean
absolutely so so so digital fishies
yeah yeah i'm coming sorry just give me
one sec to put the tv on
no problems straight back
here i am
so yeah i mean um back to your question
i mean
yeah i mean whole kind of industries are
being digitized like obviously
accountancy
and um you know issuing for example your
invoices
and reconciling all your accounts
obviously that that's
that's kind of one example of
digitization
and transformation um you know if you
for example you need
contracts you know you can go into
marketplaces now and buy them you don't
necessarily have to
you know you don't necessarily have to
um
commission kind of a solicitor to go and
create the contract from scratch
um if you're an hr person you know you
can basically get things
um you can get basically templates and
documents
again using the power of the internet um
and then you have things like ai that
are also now
there in the background to for example
if you're if you're a doctor
you know you don't necessarily have to
have to
manually go through 100 scans yourself
to flag
you know potentially something that
looks like a tumor you have basically
um artificial intelligence that's
basically scanning
automating kind of manual tasks for you
as as a as a business person or as a
doctor or
you know whatever it is that you're
doing you're now
able to deploy ai as part of your back
office to help you
you you know process information um
and do sort of get things done a lot
faster than what you used to
so and then that in turn actually allows
you to be more creative
so you can spend your time and energy on
on on better things adding value
so that's that's amazing as well makes
sense and if if we are say we're
thinking of setting up a business or we
recently
set up a business and let's say for
example we'll go with
the personal trainer side of things we
set up a fitness based company or
something along those lines
and we are think is it all about danny
is all about making it as easy as
possible for people to do business with
us provide maximum value to our users to
our customer base and also make sure our
internal processes
are all slick so thinking about how can
we make it as easy as possible for
people in this case to interact with us
so if they if we wanted to
if we're a pt we could do interactive
zoom sessions perhaps we could allow
them to easily set up everything for our
website like an online calendar to book
sessions and payments
um and just just licking that process
everything they can do
is either from their smartphone their
tablet pc is it all about that or is
there a bit more to it
have i just scratched the surface no i
think i think it is about that
absolutely i mean still the power of the
brand the power of the story
can't be understated right so if you're
a personal trainer you know you
you need to basically be able to tell
your story
and you need to be able to tell other
people's story and when someone's coming
to your you know website um
you know if if they are looking for you
as a personal trainer
they're going to want to hear the
stories you know from other people as
well so even before they come to your
website there's marketing to do there as
well like across
because people need to hear about you
and see you across
six or seven channels before they they
kind of can make their mind up
and that's generally kind of like that's
kind of more b2b sales but it also
applies in b2c sales as well
where people need to hear about you the
power of the recommendation
and the power of the stories is
essentially what sells
um but yeah i mean once you kind of get
through that barrier the kind of
the the trust and the emotional barrier
it's then about the transactional layer
how can you
how can you reverse engineer or break
that down to make it as easy as possible
so typically where a lot of people
stumble is is with money and with trying
to pay someone
personally like if a website today
doesn't have apple pay
um i'll probably not even bother because
for me apple pay it allows me to
transact it allows me to pay quickly
if that doesn't exist like when i'm
buying a product
you know it's going to put me off
because it's the convenience it's that
one
sort of click approach that kind of
almost like touchless
even using your your your face id to
basis if there was a personal trainer
and they would say to me look you know
you don't even to bother you don't have
to bother with a credit card or cash
all you need to really do is just do
touch id
or face like face id or whatever that is
you know bang you've paid the person you
know everyone's happy
that that's basically what i think
consumers want or at least a lot of
consumers want
yeah and it sounds like just really
removing the friction from all these
processes so like you said you you'd
probably refuse to do business with
someone that doesn't have the apple pay
so
it's removing that fact that you've got
to get out your credit card you've got
to put all the details in and
all the information whereas obviously
with apple pay you can just scan and go
so it sounds like really removing the
friction removing the tiredness the the
cumbersome processes that some
some digital interfaces have whether
that's your website whether that's a
mobile app whether that's something else
and just making that that that whole
thing is seamless and as easy to
to get done as possible really yeah
absolutely it's all about removing
friction i think i think that's
having a frictionless experience is
is going to be key i mean of course
there are some exceptions if you're like
registering for
you know family genealogy website or
you're about to upload your
your kind of your your your dna online
naturally you're going to expect more um
more kind of what's the word
a more kind of a stricter and kind of
more secure process because you're
obviously you're dealing with
confidential data
you're if you're registering for your
kind of local gp online
you know you're naturally going to
expect you know
to have to sort of give away that
personal kind of information
and do kind of and not sort of log in
with facebook or log in with linkedin or
log in with twitter right
um so yeah there will be some instances
where people
will understand that there's more
friction and that's absolutely fine as
long
as it's kind of clear to them you know
why that's happening
sure thing and before we move the
conversation forward to a more of a
culture standpoint danny is there
anything else perhaps from a higher
level
that everyone tuning in whether they've
got a business already whether they're
thinking of setting up on their own that
they should bear in mind
when it comes to digital when it comes
to transformation of just just a few
takeaways that you could note for them
yeah i mean i think um you're asking
more from a kind of a business
level or consumer yeah from more of an
overview
for business owners or people thinking
of setting up yeah so
i think um first of all make sure that
you're you know like
really kind of confident about because
obviously starting a business i mean i i
i do mentor people as well who are
starting businesses and one of the
things i kind of always say is like
you know before you kind of start a
business
make sure you're you're confident that
it's the right time to do it um
generally you'll know in your gut if it
is the right time or if it isn't because
some people will just rush to kind of
start a startup without having
the right sort of experience you need to
kind of live through it first
um secondly i'd say um
yeah obviously investing in kind of your
brand and your marketing and your story
is is really um is really important
you know and kind of how you tell your
story is
is is yeah crucial as well like trying
trying to sort of develop your story and
your brand and your marketing
and your and even your name these are
things that
you know you can go on to fiverr now and
get a logo for twenty dollars but it's
not going to
it's not going to work in the long term
and
having to kind of go back and change
your branding every every six months to
a year is only going to do more harm
than good you're going to look
absolutely ridiculous in the marketplace
so i think investing kind of in the
right
brand is important but equally is the
quality of your products and services if
you can't
obviously it's different advice for
different types of businesses but
whatever the product or service is
it has to be really robust before you
you kind of go to market so so um
that will probably be my third my third
piece of advice and
and the fourth is just get like the
right mentoring from the right people
whether it's
you know accountants designers lawyers
you know you need to be well mentored
and build build up kind of your network
and do just do research
would be my biggest piece of advice you
know
ultimately the internet is there to help
you so
just try and kind of yeah yeah
that makes sense yeah we'll make sense
sound advice
so move the conversation forward danny i
know from from your side of things
you're pretty passionate before we hit
record
we're talking a bit about diverse
cultures and obviously you've grown
quite a hefty team
over the cyber ducks you've got several
offices you've got a fair amount of
staff now
um so why do you think having a diverse
culture is important especially now
so more than before well i think i think
there's a lot of
there's a lot of data out there that
proves that a diverse culture is
is actually makes businesses more
profitable
more intelligent more more compassionate
more aware more creative
so i think the um the harvard business
review study proves that
businesses with a diverse leadership
team
as in you know both kind of gender and
and
racially as well you get something like
more profit than a business that doesn't
have that diverse leadership team
so it just brings loads of different
perspectives to the table that you
wouldn't have probably had if you
weren't diverse and obviously it's
you know in a way kind of easier to be
diverse when you live in somewhere like
london
um because you obviously have a you know
naturally quite a diverse
population as well so um
but with i think with the era that we
live in today
you know the internet connectivity you
can basically have
you could have a director working for
you from anywhere in the world even
right
so i don't think there's any excuse what
for businesses
why they can't be diverse today and and
if you're not diverse
that's fine as well there's no better
time to start
than kind of now um or at least
build a roadmap which kind of includes
diversity
no business is is is perfect in terms of
diversity even
microsoft or apple or google they're all
aware of their diversity challenges that
they have
so the big tech companies in america
you know smaller businesses okay i think
no no business would turn around and say
look we're perfect
right so sure it's about looking at your
your shortfalls and trying to build some
sort of diversity
um policy or diversity plan and
not just kind of talk about it but
actually live and breathe it
and do you think it's important because
it helps internally
so it helps both yourself and everyone
all of your colleagues everyone that's
working for you
to get a more impossible positive
impression of the business or do you
think it's more so externally
so when people prospective clients or
perspective customers are looking at the
business they think oh this is more of a
wholesome business
or is it a bit of both or am i way off
the mark no no it's a bit of both really
i mean i mean
i i you know genuinely i'm the sort of
guy that i love to help
kind of the communities and um society
generally i'm passionate about
people from all religions races genders
um disabilities you know i've kind of um
i used to have a neighbor next door who
you know an older guy
who used to just help him with his
internet you know and when when
he's kind of bt skype uh bt box used to
crash she used to literally just walk in
and help him and reboot his um you know
top up his mobile phone with credit
rebooting his um bt
box you know it's pretty much i'm the
sort of guy that just likes to help
and give back um but at the same time
clients will also respect you and love
you more if you have a diverse team so
if you go into like a a pitch and
there's like six guys um it doesn't look
very different you know all whites it
doesn't look really diverse so
so you know obviously you'll have female
clients and they'll think you know how
come there's no
where's kind of the equality in this
team right so
so um because naturally you know 50
of the population is female so it's if
you're not
representative then it's not going to
look the best and
i think it's about you know trying to
to just yeah give back
to to society in an equal way as opposed
to and of course we have to understand
that
for thousands of years it hasn't been
kind of an equal society
no it hasn't you know we have to be
realistic there you know there's been
you know a lot of bad stuff going on
up until probably um
you know mid 20 20th century when when
gradually
you know you started to have equal
rights and all sorts of things so i
think
as a society you know we've come from a
very
um you know very dark place but
i'm positive that we're going you know a
lot of people out there are doing a lot
of good things
and you know luckily our kids and and
our grandkids will grow up in a much
better world
again not a perfect world but things are
getting better so
i'm optimistic good now moving moving
forward danny you've
you've hired a lot of people over the
over the years actually like we said we
won a digital marketing company
um so perhaps people that are tuning in
that want to go into a management level
you've of course hired and promoted
people and in all sorts throughout the
years so
what would you say are the skills of the
managers of tomorrow what what do people
need to be thinking about now
if they want to go into a management or
senior management position um have you
got perhaps any tips or insights that
might help everyone out
yeah i mean i think passion you know
people have to be passionate they have
to be
quite stoic in their approach i mean
i've read quite a lot of books about
stoicism over the last um
three four years that have really helped
me um
like one book in particular is called um
the obstacle is the way
ryan holliday who's his fantastic writer
and talks all about stoicism
and kind of the art of um embracing
failure and actually learning from it
and not letting
it kind of dishearten you so
i'd say probably have that type of kind
of philosophy as
a manager or at least not maybe not
necessarily stoicism specifically but
equivalence
there are a lot of other sort of
management
um books management philosophies and
another really good one is
um stephen covey the seven habits of
highly effective people which
anyone who's thinking about being a
people's
person or manager should should read
that book
other kind of books that again are
really kind of favorites of mine uh
gtd getting things done by david allen
so again that book talks all about
managing your to-do list how to
prioritize because if you think about it
we live in kind of a world of
information overload right there's so
much noise there's email
there's slack there's teams there's
skype there's zoom there's constantly
you know there's more and more data
around us and trying to kind of distill
that and then know what to do first
is a challenge for even the best
managers so so
i'd say you know sort of mastering how
to kind of manage your calendar how to
how to kind of prioritize your your your
year
your just breaking break it down think
about okay what do i want to achieve by
the end of the year what am i going to
do this quarter what am i going to do
this
this month what am i going to do this
week and then having like the 80 20
rule where you know you need to have at
least 20 percent of your time
there available for kind of emergencies
for things for curveballs for things
that are going to go wrong because
things are always going to go wrong
plans are always going to need to change
and then the other piece of advice i'd
give is
think about you know software tools
you know today's managers have to be
like really tech savvy
and they have to kind of be able to
articulate articulate themselves
really well communicate very well using
kind of chats
um which again for a lot of managers
it's it's been a bit of a shock
having to kind of move away from walking
over to someone's desk tapping them on
the fault on the shoulder
now you're having to chat to people kind
of like through instant messaging
um yeah i was going to say that danny
with with the virtual world that we're
in right now
uk and a lot of other countries tuning
in um it's a bit more tricky isn't it
because most of your team probably
aren't
next to you sat down at their desk
they're probably at home
they might have kids running around they
might have their dog barking like me
that you you'll sometimes hear in the
podcast and well i've god knows what's
going on around them
so how do you keep um how can we keep
our colleagues our teammates engaged
when obviously we've got all these
distractions and we're doing it probably
virtually by skype or zoom or
google hangouts or whatever we're using
or slack or instant messenger
it's it's made things a bit trickier
right
yeah no i mean absolutely um
yeah i think it's about like having sort
of you know
kind of a clear head i think is really
important so
um and just kind of knowing what to do
every day like waking up in the morning
having kind of a plan
of action being able to sort of reflect
back at the end of the day okay what did
i do today what are my priorities
for tomorrow i think i think these are
all kind of really important
attributes and and then i think the
other piece of advice
i think is probably really crucial
especially for kind of the leaders of
tomorrow as well as managers of tomorrow
is about
bringing the right people in to work
with you because if you i always say
that the most difficult thing to do in
any business
is is actually hiring you know it's not
selling it's not marketing
it's not it's not branding it's not
building your products and services
the minute that you're bringing in the
right people um you know
and essentially you you can kind of
create the right culture by
saying okay so who are the people that i
have in the business what are what are
their best attributes
that's essentially your your pillars and
the values that you need
and then when you hire new people you're
essentially
looking for people with the same quality
what you're going to kind of believe in
that particular
kind of value system that you have and i
think it's again it's one of the most
difficult things to do in any business
especially
if you want to grow but if you can get
that right from the beginning
and there's kind of like lots of
playbooks and you know
kind of online staff handbooks now that
a lot of kind of company i think valve
for one of the first companies
the gaming company you know the american
multiplayer that they created i think
probably about 10 years ago they created
like
an online handbook about their culture
37 signals again another company that
created
sort of handbooks and books about kind
of their attitude to work
and then once they kind of put that
information out there and build that
type of robust uh culture the people
that then applied to work there believed
in those same principles so they were
able to kind of scale
the business a lot a lot um faster than
if they wouldn't have published those
um particular kind of almost manuals of
how
their culture should work got it and
this might be a tough one danny
but i've we've been in the same boat
we've had a lot of issues with hiring
staff in the past and i'm sure most
people that run a business tuning in
probably have it's one of the toughest
gigs just like you say especially with
reliable salespeople
because a lot of the time they can give
it the talk and then when it comes to
actually
bringing the deals in it's a completely
different ball game and you'll find that
they've not hit your targets and all
sorts have you got one or two quick
questions
or strategies that you implement
implement when you're when you're hiring
there could be a value to people tuning
in or one or two questions perhaps that
you throw in the mix that you find tend
to
to cut out the uh the wheat from the
chaff yeah
first of all um higher for diversity so
to make it a principle that you you know
hire for
for diversity and make sure that you
know in any given role that you're
you're you're looking at diverse cvs
that's obviously
first and foremost secondly um
i always find that the almost the layout
of the cv and the content of the cv
is extremely reflective of the candidate
and you know you know i'm not perfect at
spelling myself
but the grammar in in a kind of a resume
and the you know the structure and the
content is
that normally if that is really really
good you are going to have a good
interview guaranteed
and then the third thing i'd say is if
that person
has got an online blog or some sort of
really great passion like one of the
best people i interviewed
um in their gap year or year off they
went to
cambodia to build houses for
people for free and when during the
interview i said why did you do that i
said look i just wanted to help people
he was probably one of the most
brilliant people that i hired
and it was a passion he just wanted to
you know take a
you know six months off to go and build
houses for people free of charge
because he you know he likes helping and
that he was
one of the smartest and um
you know hardest working people um or
interns that i ever hired in my life so
and i've had a lot of them so um
definitely if it's outside of the role
that you're hiring for
if they've been passionate about
something before
um they're going to do really well in
your business
great tip danny it's been an absolute
pleasure really appreciate you coming on
dude
so for anyone that wants to learn more
about danny bluestone please do tell us
more about how we can learn from you how
we can connect with you and the best way
to get in touch
so yeah obviously uh linkedin um just
search for danny bluestone i believe
there's only one danny bluestone
in well not one in the world but one on
linkedin
and then on twitter as well uh yeah i'm
on on there
so yeah um also website
cyber hyphen duck dot co dot uk there's
various kind of
other links there to things that i've
done and spoken about before
awesome danny thanks once again for
coming on dude really appreciate it
thanks see you everyone cheers dude if
you enjoyed the show be sure to hit
subscribe on your podcast channel of
choice for sam's business growth show be
at apple podcast
youtube spotify whatever you the heck
you get your podcast we interview
businesses each and every week to give
you actual tips on sales
business growth and digital marketing
thanks once again for tuning in